CRIMINAL WRONGDOING BY A MAJOR
BANK IN DECADES.
WE EXAMINE THE FALLOUT AFTER
CREDIT-SUISSE PLEADS GUILTY PLEA
IN A $2.6 BILLION DOLLAR TAX
EVASION CASE.
THIS CASE SHOWS NO FINANCIAL
INSTITUTION, NO MATTER ITS SIZE
OR GLOBAL REACH IS ABOVE THE
LAW.
>> Ifill: GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN
IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS TUESDAY, ONE
TYCOON'S BID TO TURN THE TIDE IN
THE UKRAINE CRISIS.
MARGARET WARNER LOOKS AT HOW
HE'S DEPLOYING HIS INFLUENCE,
AND HIS EMPLOYEES TO PUSH BACK
AT PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS.
>> Ifill: PLUS, JEFFREY BROWN
AND POET LAUREATE NATASHA
TRETHEWEY CONTINUE THEIR
EXPLORATION OF "WHERE POETRY
LIVES."
TONIGHT, A PROJECT BREAKING
POETS OUT OF THEIR IVORY TOWERS,
AND BRINGING THEM INTO THEIR
COMMUNITIES.
>> IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT
POETS BE IN THE COMMUNITY, BE
WITH WHAT'S HAPPENING AND
CONSCIOUS AND CONNECTED TO
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE WORLD
AROUND US.
>> Ifill: THOSE ARE JUST SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> MAJOR FUNDING FOR THE PBS
>> Woodruff: ANOTHER 2.4 MILLION
CARS AND TRUCKS ARE HEADED BACK
TO GENERAL MOTORS.
THE FOUR NEW RECALLS TODAY
INVOLVE SEAT BELTS,
TRANSMISSIONS, AIR BAGS AND
RISKS OF FIRE.
MORE THAN HALF THE AFFECTED
MODELS ARE BUICK, CHEVROLET AND
G.M.C. CROSS-OVERS FROM 2009
THROUGH 2014.
OLDER MODEL CHEVY AND PONTIAC
SEDANS ACCOUNT FOR NEARLY ALL
THE REMAINING VEHICLES.
JUST LAST WEEK, G.M. AGREED TO
PAY A $35 MILLION FEDERAL FINE
FOR CONCEALING IGNITION SWITCH
PROBLEMS.
>> Ifill: A MAJOR NEW ATTACK HIT
NIGERIA TODAY, A DOUBLE CAR
BOMBING THAT KILLED AT LEAST 118
PEOPLE.
THE FIRST BLAST STRUCK A BUS
TERMINAL IN THE CENTRAL CITY OF
JOS.
A SECOND BOMB EXPLODED THERE
30 MINUTES LATER, AFTER RESCUE
WORKERS ARRIVED.
THE BOMBINGS BORE THE HALLMARKS
OF "BOKO HARAM", THE ISLAMIST
GROUP THAT'S HOLDING MORE THAN
270 SCHOOL GIRLS CAPTIVE.
THE MILITARY IN THAILAND HAS
INTERVENED IN THAT COUNTRY'S
ONGOING POLITICAL CRISIS.
JOHN SPARKS, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS FROM
BANGKOK.
>> Reporter: THE PEOPLE OF
THAILAND WOKE UP TO A SOMETHING
OF A SURPRISE THIS MORNING.
THE FIRST AND ONLY ITEM ON THE
BREAKFAST NEWS, WERE PICTURES OF
TROOPS, TRUCKS AND ARMORED
JEEPS, MOVING INTO TOWNS AND
CITIES.
THE MILITARY HAD DECLARED
MARTIAL LAW.
FOR VIEWERS OF A HANDFUL OF MORE
PARTISAN T.V. CHANNELS, WELL,
THE ARMY TOOK THEM OFF THE AIR
ALTOGETHER.
HERE'S THE MAN RESPONSIBLE, ARMY
GENERAL PRAYUTH CHANOCHA
HE SAID IT WAS ABOUT RE-
ESTABLISHING LAW AND ORDER
ITS NOT A MILITARY COUP,
ALTHOUGH THE GENERAL SEEMED TO
BE THE ONE IN CHARGE TODAY.
>> DON'T ASK ME IF MARTIAL LAW
WILL BE LONG OR SHORT.
WHEN THE COUNTRY IS PEACEFUL
WE'LL GET RID OF IT.
>> Reporter: TWO WEEKS AGO THE
PRIME MINISTER, YINGLUCK
SHINAWATRA, WAS KICKED OUT
OFFICE FOR ABUSE OF POWER, BUT
SOME SEE HER REMOVAL AS PART OF
POWER STRUGGLE BETWEEN HER
FAMILY AND THE ROYALIST
ESTABLISHMENT.
AND THESE DIVISIONS ARE LAID
BARE IN THE CAPITAL.
PRO-ESTABLISHMENT SUPPORTERS,
THE YELLOW-SHIRTS, ARE CAMPING
OUT IN THE CENTER OF TOWN, WHILE
THE OPPOSITION ARE IN THE
SUBURBS.
THE ARMY DOESN'T WANT THE TWO
SIDES TO COME TOGETHER AND FIGHT
IT OUT ON THE STRAITS.  SEVERAL
THOUSAND PEOPLE ARE BAKING IN
THE SUN OR TAKING COVER UNDER
THE TREES BUT NOBODY SEEMED KEEN
ON CONFRONTATION.
FOR THE TIME, THIS CITY OF
MARITAL LAW REMAINS AT PEACE.
>> Woodruff: IN CHINA, THE
FOREIGN MINISTRY CALLED IN THE
AMERICAN AMBASSADOR TODAY TO
TELL HIM THE U.S. IS
JEOPARDIZING MILITARY TIES BY
INDICTING FIVE CHINESE OFFICERS.
THEY'RE  ACCUSED OF HACKING U.S.
CORPORATE COMPUTERS FOR TRADE
SECRETS.
THE FOREIGN MINISTRY INSISTED
THE INDICTMENT BE WITHDRAWN.
>> Ifill: U.S. TENSIONS WITH
CHINA AND RUSSIA WERE
PART OF THE BACKDROP TODAY AS
RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR PUTIN
ARRIVED IN SHANGHAI.
HE MET WITH CHINESE PRESIDENT XI
JINPING, AT AN ASIAN SECURITY
CONFERENCE.
THE TWO LEADERS ARE TRYING TO
HAMMER OUT A MULTI-BILLION
DOLLAR SALE OF RUSSIAN NATURAL
GAS TO CHINA.
>> Woodruff: OFFICIALS IN BOSNIA
AND SERBIA NOW SAY THOUSANDS OF
FARM ANIMALS HAVE DROWNED IN
RECORD FLOODING, AND THE
CARCASSES POSE A HEALTH HAZARD.
MEANWHILE, THE HUMAN DEATH TOLL
TOPPED 40, AS THE SWOLLEN SAVA
RIVER ENGULFED MORE TOWNS IN
BOSNIA OVERNIGHT.
AND CREWS SEARCHED FOR OLD
LANDMINES FROM THE BALKANS WAR
THAT MAY HAVE BEEN EXPOSED BY
THE FLOODS.
>> Ifill: INDIA'S INCOMING PRIME
MINISTER GAVE AN EMOTIONAL FIRST
ADDRESS TO SUPPORTERS IN
PARLIAMENT TODAY.
NARENDRA MODI AND HIS HINDU
NATIONALIST PARTY WON IN A
LANDSLIDE LAST WEEK.
TODAY, SURROUNDED BY
PHOTOGRAPHERS, MODI BENT AND
KISSED THE STEPS OF THE
PARLIAMENT BUILDING IN NEW
DELHI.
INSIDE, HE FOUGHT BACK TEARS AS
HE SPOKE TO LAWMAKERS.
>> ( translated ): THE NEW
GOVERNMENT IS DEDICATED TO THE
POOR, TO ALL THE YOUNG PEOPLE
AND TO OUR MOTHERS AND SISTERS
WHO HAVE BEEN CRAVING FOR HONOR
AND DIGNITY.
>> Ifill: MODI IS SCHEDULED TO
BE SWORN IN NEXT MONDAY.
>> Woodruff: FORCED LABOR, FROM
PROSTITUTION TO OUTRIGHT
SLAVERY, IS YIELDINGLLN G
PROFITS.
THE U.N.'S "INTERNATIONAL LABOR
ORGANIZATION" REPORTED THE
FIGURE TODAY.
IT ESTIMATED 21 MILLION PEOPLE
ARE VICTIMS, AND MORE THAN HALF
ARE WOMEN AND GIRLS.
THE AGENCY SAID THE REPORT ADDS
A NEW URGENCY TO ERADICATING THE
ABUSE.
>> Ifill: WALL STREET HAD A DOWN
DAY, AFTER RETAILERS REPORTED
SUB-PAR EARNINGS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST 137 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
16,374.
THE NASDAQ FELL ALMOST 29 POINTS
TO CLOSE BELOW 4,097.
AND THE S-AND-P 500 SHED 12, TO
FINISH UNDER 1,873.
>> Ifill: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR:
THE FALLOUT FROM CREDIT SUISSE'S
GUILTY PLEA;
A TYCOON'S BID TO TURN THE TIDE
IN UKRAINE;
THE WAVE OF MERGER DEALS IN THE
TELECOM INDUSTRY;
POETRY STUDENTS BRINGING THE
GIFT OF VERSE TO THEIR
COMMUNITIES;
PLUS, TAILORING SCIENTIFIC
RESEARCH TO REFLECT GENDER
DIFFERENCES.
>> Woodruff: CREDIT SUISSE IS
THE FIRST BIG BANK IN MORE THAN
TWO DECADES TO PLEAD GUILTY TO A
FELONY CRIME IN THE U.S.
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
ANNOUNCED THE CHARGES LATE
YESTERDAY, SAYING THE SWISS BANK
HAD CONSPIRED TO AID TAX EVASION
OVER DECADES BY HELPING
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE HIDE WEALTH.
CREDIT SUISSE, WHICH HAS AN
AMERICAN INVESTMENT BANK, WILL
PAY $2.6 BILLION IN PENALTIES.
ATTORNEY GENERAL ERIC HOLDER HAS
BEEN EMPHASIZING OF LATE THAT,
QUOTE, "NO BANK IS TOO BIG TO
JAIL."
THE CREDIT SUISSE CASE, HE SAID,
WAS A GOOD EXAMPLE.
>> THIS ANNOUNCEMENT SHOULD SEND
A FIRM AND UNEQUIVOCAL MESSAGE
TO ANYONE WHO WOULD ENGAGE IN
DISHONEST OR ILLEGAL FINANCIAL
ACTIVITY, THAT THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT DOES NOT AND WE WILL
NOT TOLERATE SUCH ACTIVITIES.
WHEN A BANK ENGAGES IN
MISCONDUCT THAT IS THIS BRAZEN,
IT SHOULD EXPECT THAT THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT WILL PURSUE
CRIMINAL PROSECUTION TO THE
FULLEST EXTENT POSSIBLE AS HAS
HAPPENED HERE.
>> Woodruff: HOLDER'S COMMENTS
COME AFTER MANY EXPERTS HAVE
FREQUENTLY ASKED ABOUT WHY THE
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE HAS NOT
PURSUED MORE SERIOUS CHARGES
AGAINST SOME OF THE BANKS
CONNECTED WITH THE FINANCIAL
CRISIS.
WE LOOK AT THE LATEST WITH THIS
CASE AND THE BIGGER PICTURE.
NOMI PRINS IS A SENIOR FELLOW AT
DEMOS AND THE AUTHOR OF, "ALL
THE PRESIDENT'S BANKERS."
BEFORE SHE BECAME A WRITER, SHE
WORKED IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS
AT GOLDMAN SACHS AND BEAR
STEARNS.
AND MARK CALABRIA, A FORMER
REPUBLICAN STAFF MEMBER OF THE
SENATE BANKING COMMITTEE.
HE'S NOW DIRECTOR OF FINANCIAL
REGULATION AT THE CATO
INSTITUTE.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH.
SO, NOMI PRINS, TO YOU FIRST,
EXPLAIN EXACTLY WHAT IT IS
CREDIT SUISSE IS CHARGED WITH
AND HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS?
>> WELL, THEY'RE CHARGED WITH
HELPING BOTH INDIVIDUALS AND IN
SMALLER PRINT BY EXTENSION
COMPANIES THOSE INDIVIDUALS
MIGHT HAVE SET UP TO SHIELD
TAXES FROM THE UNITED STATES
GOVERNMENT FROM THE I.R.S. OVER
A PERIOD OF MANY YEARS.
SO THE $2.6 BILLION FINE, TO A
LARGE EXTENT, IS RETRIBUTION FOR
THE TAXES THAT SHOULD HAVE COME
TO THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE OF
THESE TAX EVASIVE PROGRAMS THAT
CREDIT SUISSE SET UP BUT DID
NOT.
>> Woodruff: AND HOW
SIGNIFICANT?
>> THE C.E.O. OF CREDIT SUISSE
YESTERDAY SAID THIS WOULD ONLY
DENT ONE-QUARTER'S EARNINGS BY
$1.8 BILLION AND THEY'RE PAYING
$2.6 BILLION, SO THAT IN ITSELF
IS A LITTLE BIT OF A SHELL GAME.
THERE IS A SIGNIFICANCE IN THAT
IT IS A FELONY, A GUILTY CRIME.
WE'VE NOT SEEN ANY OF THAT TYPE
OF PLEA HAPPEN THROUGHOUT ANY OF
THE WAKE OF THE SUB-PRIME
CRISIS, SO THERE IS ONE, BUT IT
IS MORE SIGNIFICANT TO NOTE THIS
TAX EVASION FELONY HAS NOTHING
TO DO WITH ANY OF THE PRACTICING
RELATED TO THE SUB-PRIME CRISIS.
THIS IS INDEPENDENT OF THOSE
PRACTICES, EVEN THOUGH THERE ARE
PRACTICES RELATED TO THE
SUB-PRIME CRISIS THAT ENABLE TAX
EVASION BUT THEY ARE NOT
CONTAINED IN THIS PARTICULAR
PLEA, NOR HAVE THEY BEEN
INVESTIGATED OR GONE AFTER BY
THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE BY ANY
OF THE AMERICAN BIG
INSTITUTIONS.
>> Woodruff: MARK CALABRIA,
HOW SIGNIFICANT IS THIS
PARTICULAR PROSECUTION?
>> I DON'T SEE IT AS
SIGNIFICANT.
THIS IS NO RELATIONSHIPO THE
FINANCIAL CRISIS, BUT WHAT WE'VE
SEEN HERE THAT'S DIFFERENT THAN
PREVIOUS SETTLEMENTS IS A GUILTY
PLEA.
THPLEA.
HOLDER IS SAYING THEY MAY BE
GOING TO JAIL BUT I DON'T SEE
ANYBODY GOING TO JAIL.
BANKS ARE RELUCTANT TO CRIMINAL
CHARGES BECAUSE OF LITIGATION
OUT OF THIS.
SO I SUSPECT AMERICANS WHO HAVE
CREDIT SUISSE ARE NOT GOING TO
SUE, SO IT'S EASIER TO MAKE A
CRIMINAL ADMISSION IF NOBODY IS
GOING TO JAIL.
>> Woodruff: TO MOST,
$2.6 BILLION SOUNDS LIKE A LOT
OF MONEY.
>> FOR MOST IT IS.
BUT THAT SAID, IT'S A SMALL
AMOUNT FOR CREDIT SUISSE.
MORE IMPORTANTLY, I THINK THIS
IS CRUCIAL FOR THE INCENTIVES,
IT'S NOT BEING MADE BY THE
MANAGEMENT, THIS IS MONEY PAID
BY SHAREHOLDERS.
SO THE FUNDAMENTAL THEME ADDRESS
SHOULD THE WRONG DOER PAY THE
PENALTY, IN THIS CASE IS
SHAREHOLDERS ARE PAYING IT
INSTEAD OF MANAGEMENT.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT NOMI
PRINS' POINT THAT THIS IS ONE
SET OF CHARGES THAT HAVE TO DO
WITH TAX EVASION AND NOT
CONNECTED DIRECTLY TO THE
SUB-PRIME CRISIS THAT LED TO THE
FINANCIAL --
>> THAT'S A CRUCIAL POINT.
WE'VE SEEN THE SEC WHERE THEY'VE
GONE AFTER HEDGE FUNDS BUT NOT
WALL STREET AND INSIDER TRADER
BUT NOT SUB-PRIME LENDING, SO I
THINK A LOT OF THE FRUSTRATION
IN AMERICA IS ABOUT THE CRISIS
AND NOBODY IS HELD ACCOUNTABLE
IN A LARGE WAY, THEN YOU SEE THE
CASES THAT ARE ABSOLUTELY
UNRELATED TO THE CRISIS.
SO I THINK THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT
QUESTION.
>> Woodruff: NOMI PRINS, WHAT
IS YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF WHY
MORE BANKS, WHY THE
ADMINISTRATION HASN'T GONE AFTER
MOORE BANKS DIRECTLY BECAUSE OF
THE SUB-PRIME LENDING ISSUE?
>> WELL, FAR THE FIRST -- FIRST
OF ALL, THE U.S. GOVERNMENT HAS
SUBSIDIZED THE VERY BANKS THAT
HAVE BEEN AT THE CENTER OF THE
SUB-PRIME CRISIS.
SO IF YOU'RE YOU BE SUBSIDIZING
BANK THROUGH A SMALL PROGRAM
THROUGH THE $7 BILLION OF TARP
MONEY OR TRILLIONS OF DOLLARS OF
LOANS GIVE ON THE BANKS TO
SUSTAIN THEMSELVES IN THE WAKE
OF THE TOXIC SUB-PRIME ASSET
WATERFALL, WHETHER THE CURRENT
DEBT THE FEDERAL RESERVE IS
CARRYING TO KEEP RATES LOW SO
THE BANKS CAN CONTINUE TO MARK
THE ASSETS STILL RELATED TO THE
SUB-PRIME CRISIS HIGHER AND TO
LOOK HEALTHIER THAN THEY ARE,
THESE ARE ALL POLICY INITIATIVES
THAT CONTINUE TO SWIRL SO THAT
IF THE DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
TURNED AROUND AND SAY,
VERYTHING THEY'VE DONE IS
CRIMINAL AND THEY JUST ADMITTED
TO CRIMINAL CHARGES EVEN TAX
EVASION RELATED TO SUB-PRIME
ASSETS THEN IT'S ALSO TO GO BACK
TO POLICIES PUT IN PLACE BY THE
TREASURY DEPARTMENT AND FEDERAL
RESERVE AND APPROVED BY TWO
ADMINISTRATIONS UNDER BUSH AND
OBAMA.
>> Woodruff: MARK CALABRIA,
PICK UP ON WHY IT IS THE
ADMINISTRATION HASN'T --
>> ONE OF THE TENSIONS AND I
THINK IT'S QUALITY VERSUS
QUANTITY, THE EASIEST THING
FACING THE SEC IS TO GET A LARGE
SETTLEMENT.
THE BANK WILL PAY WITH
SHAREHOLDERS MONEY.
ANY EXECUTIVE FACING CRIMINAL
CHARGES WILL FIGHT TOOTH AND
NAIL.
WE SAW IT BE BEAR STEARNS WHERE
THEY FOUGHT TOOTH AND NAIL AND
YOU'RE SEEING THE D.O.J. AND THE
SEC TAKE A BATH OF LEAST
RESISTANCE WHICH IS TO GET A BIG
NUMBER EVEN THOUGH SMALL FOR THE
BANK WITHOUT ACTUALLY GOING
AFTER INDIVIDUALS.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE LESS
SETTLEMENTS, MORE CASES GO TO
COURT SO WE CAN JUDGE THE FACT,
GET HIGHER-QUALITY CONVICTIONS
BECAUSE, RIGHT NOW, YOU'RE NOT
ABLE TO DISTINGUISH BETWEEN THE
ACTUAL WRONG DORSE AND THOSE WHO
AREN'T.
>> Woodruff: WE CAN'T IN THE
ONE CONVERSATION GET INTO ALL
THE DETAILS, BUT NOMI PRINS WHAT
ABOUT THE BANK'S ARGUMENT THAT
IF YOU COME AFTER US AND DEAL A
CRIPPLING BLOW IN TERMS OF
FINANCIAL PENALTY, YOU COULD
AFFECT THE ENTIRE ECONOMIC
INFRASTRUCTURE OF THE COMPANY.
>> THAT'S BEEN THE ARGUMENT THE
BANKS AND THE TREASURY
DEPARTMENT HAVE BEEN USING THE
PAST SEVERAL DECADES.
THAT WAS THE ARGUMENT BEHIND THE
FEDERAL DEBT BAIL OUTS AND THE
SUB-PRIME CRISIS.
THERE IS THE NOTION BANKS ARE
TOO BIG TO NOT BE SUPPORTED AND
IF NOT SUPPORTED THEY WILL FALL
AND CRASH THE ECONOMY EVEN MORE
SO THAN THEY HAVE BEEN SHOWN TO
DO.
BUT WHAT COULD HAVE HAPPENED IS,
WHILE THEY HAVE BEEN SUBSIDIZING
THESE BANKS AT THE TOP, RATHER
THAN ALLOWING THEM AND THEIR
CHAIRMAN AS MARK POINTED OUT TO
GET OFF SCOT-FREE AND NOT GO TO
JAIL, WHY GIVE THEM TRILLIONS OF
DOLLARS TO SUSTAIN THEIR
PRACTICES?
THRSKED A DECISION AT THE LEVEL
OF THE WHITE HOUSE AND
WASHINGTON TO SAY WE'RE GOING TO
HELP THE INDIVIDUALS, THE
MORTGAGES, THE ECONOMY, NOT
GOING TO HELP THESE INSTITUTIONS
CONTINUE.
TO THAT'S THE PROBLEM OF WHY WE
ARE CONTINUING TO SUBSIDIZE
FAULTY INSTITUTIONS AND NOT
THROW PEOPLE IN JAIL WHO CREATED
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
>> Woodruff: LET ME QUICKLY
CUT IN.
MARK, THERE ARE SIGNS, THOUGH,
THAT THE ADMINISTRATION IS
LOOKING FOR OTHER BANKS TO
PROSECUTE.
>> THIS CERTAINLY COULD BE A BIG
CHANGE.
I DON'T THINK IT LOOKS LIKE A
BIG CHANGE.
I THINK WE'RE AT THE POINT WHERE
IT'S TRUST BUT VERIFY.
LET'S SEE WHAT D.O.J. DOES NEXT.
I FEEL LIKE THIS IS A BIG OF
NONEVENT IN TERMS OF A CHANGE IN
REAL PROSECUTION, BUT AGAIN IT
COULD CHANGE.
WE COULD GO AFTER U.S.
COMPANIES.
I THINK IT'S WORTH NOTING CREDIT
SUISSE IS NOT A BIG U.S. BANK
AND THE REAL BIG BANKS THAT HAVE
INFLUENCE WITH THE GOVERNMENT
ARE THE U.S.-BASED BANKS.
SO WHETHER YOU'RE GOING TO SEE
THE SAME THING WITH A GOLDMAN OR
BANK OF AMERICA OR JP MORGAN,
THAT REMAINS TO BE SEEN.
>> Woodruff: MARK CALABRIA,
NOMI PRINS, THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, MAKING SURE
POETRY LEAVES THE IVORY TOWER
AND GETS OUT INTO THE COMMUNITY.
OVER THE PAST YEAR, JEFFREY
BROWN AND U.S. POET LAUREATE
NATASHA TRETHEWEY HAVE BEEN
EXPLORING TH
RIOUCORNERS OF AMERICAN
LIFE.
THEY RECENTLY TRAVELED TO LOS
ANGELES TO LOOK AT HOW THAT
PLAYED OUT WITH A GRADUATE
WRITING PROGRAM AT ANTIOCH
UNIVERSITY.
IT'S THE LAST CHAPTER IN OUR
SERIES ON DISCOVERING ""WHERE
POETRY LIVES."
>> Brown: ON A RECENT THURSDAY
EVENING AT A COMMUNITY HALL JUST
EAST OF LOS ANGELES, ALEJANDRA
SANCHEZ LED A GROUP OF LATINA
WOMEN IN A POETRY WRITING
EXERCISE.
>> YOU'RE GOING TO USE THOSE
FIVE WORDS.
JUST FREESTYLE WITH IT AND WRITE
A POEM USING THE FIVE WORDS.
>> Brown: SANCHEZ BEGAN THE
PROJECT AS PART OF A REQUIREMENT
TO GET HER MASTERS IN FINE ARTS
DEGREE FROM ANTIOCH UNIVERSITY,
LOS ANGELES, WHICH WAS FOUNDED
AS A SATELLITE OF THE ORIGINAL
OHIO CAMPUS.
THE TWO-YEAR GRADUATE PROGRAM
DEMANDS THAT ALL STUDENTS
PARTICIPATE IN  A COMMUNITY
SERVICE PROJECT TO ENHANCE THE
"WRITING LIFE" OF OTHERS.
SANCHEZ SET UP HER FIELD STUDY
PROJECT TO WORK WITH LOW-INCOME
WOMEN WHO'D NOT HAD ACCESS TO
WRITING WORKSHOPS.
>> THE POWER OF THE WORD IS A
DOORWAY.
A BIG PIECE OF MY FIELD STUDY IS
ABOUT BUILDING COMMUNITY AND
BRIDGING BETWEEN ACADEMIA AND
WOMEN OF COLOR, WHO, IN THEIR
COMMUNITIES ALL OF THE ARTS HAVE
BEEN CUT SO THEY DON'T HAVE THIS
KIND OF STUFF.
>> Brown: REQUIRING THE
COMMUNITY SERVICE WORK WAS THE
BRAINCHILD OF ELOISE KLEIN
HEALY, THE FIRST POET LAUREATE
OF LOS ANGELES, WHO FOUNDED
ANTIOCH'S M.F.A. PROGRAM IN
1997, BEFORE RETIRING EIGHT
YEARS AGO.
CURRENT ANTIOCH POETRY PROFESSOR
JENNY FACTOR SAYS HEALY WAS
ADAMANT THAT POETS AND WRITERS
NOT ENSCONCE THEMSELVES IN AN
IVORY TOWER.
>> IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT THE WORK
ON THE PAGE.
IT'S ABOUT WHERE YOU PUT YOUR
FEET WHEN YOU GET OUT OF BED IN
THE MORNING.
HER CONCEPT WAS THAT ART WAS
PARTICIPATORY, THAT THERE WAS A
KIND OF COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
FACET TO A LIFELONG CREATIVE
PRACTICE.
>> Brown: IT'S AN APPROACH THAT
RESONATED WITH NATASHA
TRETHEWAY, WHO'S JUST FINISHING
UP HER SECOND AND FINAL YEAR AS
THE U.S. POET LAUREATE.
>> I OFTEN TALK ABOUT HOW I SEE
IT AS MY JOB TO BRING POETRY TO
A WIDER AUDIENCE, TO PROMOTE IT,
TO BRING MORE READERS AND LOVERS
OF POETRY.
AND THAT'S NOT THE WORK I
THOUGHT OF MYSELF DOING WHEN I
WAS IN GRAD SCHOOL WHEN I WANTED
TO LEARN EVERYTHING I COULD
ABOUT A SONNET.
>> Brown: GINA LORING STARTED
HER COMMUNITY PROJECT FOUR YEARS
AGO AS AN ANTIOCH GRADUATE
STUDENT, TEACHING WORKSHOPS AT A
PROGRAM FOR INCARCERATED YOUTH.
THE WORK WAS SO REWARDING, SHE
CONTINUES TO TEACH THERE,
BOTH IN DETENTION CENTERS, AND
AT A PROGRAM FOR YOUTH WHO'VE
BEEN RELEASED.
>> I THINK IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT
THAT POETS BE IN THE COMMUNITY,
BE WITH WHAT'S HAPPENING AND
CONSCIOUS AND CONNECTED TO
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE WORLD
AROUND US.
BECAUSE POETRY CAN REALLY BE A
PLATFORM FOR GIVING VOICE,
GIVING VOICE TO THE VOICELESS.
>> Brown: DURING THE SESSION WE
WATCHED, MANY OF THE YOUNG
PEOPLE WROTE ABOUT THE
DIFFICULTIES THEY STILL FACE.
>> MY BODY WAS FREE, BUT MY MIND
WAS STILL STUCK IN A CELL OF THE
NEGATIVE PAST.
EVEN AFTER MY RELEASE, I WAS
WALKING AROUND
IN AN ORANGE JUMPSUIT AND BLACK
SHOES.
ORANGE WILL ALWAYS BE YOUR BLACK
UNTIL YOU DECIDE TO GIVE IT
BACK.
>> KINDNESS IS NOT STUPID OR
WEAK, IT IS A MOVEMENT.
KINDNESS IS A MOVEMENT FOR
CHANGE THAT IS SO POWERFUL AND
STRONG.
>> I  LOVE THAT POETRY BECOMES A
WAY TO FOSTER CONVERSATIONS
ABOUT JUSTICE.
THAT POETRY CAN BE USED FOR ALL
SORTS OF THINGS, PERSONAL
THINGS.
BUT ALSO THE LARGER IDEA OF THE
BETTER WORLD THAT WE'RE ALL
TRYING TO MAKE AND THAT I SEE
YOU BEING INVOLVED IN.
>> Brown: NATASHA AND I TALKED
TO SEVERAL CURRENT AND FORMER
ANTIOCH STUDENTS ABOUT THE LINK,
PERHAPS THE TENSION, BETWEEN
MAKING POETRY BROADLY
ACCESSIBLE, AND HONING ONE'S
INDIVIDUAL CRAFT.
>> I TELL MY STUDENTS, I BELIEVE
THAT EVERYONE CAN LEARN TO WRITE
A BETTER POEM.
YOU'VE ALL MADE THE DECISION TO
COME BACK AND GO TO AN M.F.A.
PROGRAM TO WORK ON CRAFT.
WHY IS IT IMPORTANT TO DO THAT?
>> JUST LETTING MY HEART BLEED
ON THE PAGE, THAT'S VERY
CATHARTIC AND GREAT FOR
RELIEVING STRESS AND GETTING RID
OF EMOTIONS.
BUT I WANT TO TAKE IT TO THE
NEXT LEVEL.
I WANT IT TO BE THIS BEAUTIFUL
PIECE OF ART THAT JUST TOUCHES
SOMEBODY WHO MAY NOT HAVE
EXPERIENCED WHAT I'VE
EXPERIENCED, BUT THEY CAN GET
THE SIMILARITIES OF IT AND IT'LL
TRIGGER SOMETHING WITHIN THEM.
>> IT'S IMPORTANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT EVERYONE HAS SOMETHING TO
CONTRIBUTE, WHETHER YOU'RE IN A
JAIL CELL OR A DORM ROOM, YOU
HAVE A STORY TO TELL.
BUT I ALSO THINK IT'S LIKE ANY
OTHER TALENT, IF YOU SING OR
DANCE OR PAINT, THERE'S A
NATURAL INCLINATION TOWARDS
SOMETHING FIRST AND THEN YOU
TAKE THE TIME TO WORK ON IT AND
HONE IT AND DEVELOP THE SKILLS
AND STRENGTHEN YOUR MUSCLE.
>> Brown: BUT THERE'S A QUESTION
THAT ARISES, AND IT'S ARISEN IN
SEVERAL OF OUR TRIPS: CAN ANYONE
WRITE?
CAN ANYONE BE A POET?
>> IF YOU WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
POET, THE ESTABLISHED POET, NO I
DON'T THINK ALL OF US CAN BE
THAT.
BUT THE IMPORTANT THING IS
WORKING WITH WORDS.
IT DOESN'T MATTER IF ITS MESSY
AS LONG AS THEY'RE APPROACHING
THE PAGE WITH WORDS.
>> Brown: WHETHER THEY'RE
VETERANS, CHILDREN, THE
HOMELESS, THEY DON'T HAVE TO BE
POETS BUT IT'S THE WORKING WITH
WORDS THAT'S IMPORTANT.
>> IT'S THE WORKING WITH WORDS
IN WHATEVER WAY THEY DO IT.
>> DO YOU HAVE SOMETHING YOU'D
LIKE TO READ?
>> Brown: IT'S A PROJECT FOR THE
HOMELESS, IN FACT, THAT'S BEEN
THE FOCUS FOR ANTIOCH STUDENTS
JAMIE GARCIA AND JAMAICA HORTON.
EACH WEEK, NEARLY A DOZEN PEOPLE
GATHER AT A COFFEE SHOP TO
WRITE.
>> WHAT IF THESE POETS ON THE
STREET TOOK OVER THE WORLD?
REWROTE THE DAILY NEWS TO
REFLECT THE STREET.
WOULD WE FORGET THE HOMELESS,
THE MENTALLY ILL, THE VETERAN?
>> Brown: PART OF WHAT WE'RE
SEEING IS THESE KINDS OF
PROGRAMS ENCOURAGE ALL KINDS OF
PEOPLE TO WRITE.
I DON'T KNOW IF THAT MEANS
EVERYBODY IS A POET.
DOES IT MATTER?
>> I DON'T THINK IT MATTERS.
I THINK POETRY LIVES IN ALL OF
US.
I THINK WHAT MIGHT DISTINGUISH
THE PEOPLE WHO TURN TO POETRY
OUT OF EVERYDAY NEED, TO
ARTICULATE SOMETHING DIFFICULT
VERSUS PEOPLE WHO GO OUT TO
PUBLISH THEIR WORK AND HONE
THEIR CRAFT, ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE
DEVOTED TO IT IN DIFFERENT WAYS.
THEY ARE PEOPLE WHO ARE WILLING
TO PRACTICE, DO IT AGAIN AND
AGAIN.
NOT SIMPLY TO EMOTE BUT CREATE A
"MADE THING" THROUGH LANGUAGE.
>> Brown: THE STUDENT
ANTIOCH COLLE TOLD US THEY
WILL CONTINUE TO HONE THEIR
CRAFT, ALL THE WHILE WORKING TO
MAKE SURE POETRY CONTINUES TO
LIVE, AND EVEN THRIVE, IN THEIR
COMMUNITIES.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN HEAR A FORMER
ANTIOCH STUDENT READ A POEM
INSPIRED BY INCARCERATED TEENS.
THAT'S ON OUR ARTS PAGE.
>> Woodruff: WHEN YOU SEE
HEADLINES ABOUT A NEW DRUG
CHANCES ARE YOU RARELY THOUGHT
ABOUT THE GENDER OF THE LAB
ANIMAL THE DRUG WAS FIRST TESTED
ON DURING TRIALS BUT, IN FACT,
MOST EARLY TRIALS ARE CONDUCTED
ON MALE RATS OR OTHER MALE
ANIMALS.
RESEARCHERS SAY THAT GENDER
DIFFERENCE HAS LED TO A
SIGNIFICANT IMPACT AFTER A DRUG
COMES TO MARKET.
LAST WEEK, THE NATIONAL
INSTITUTES OF HEALTH ANNOUNCED
IT IS REQUIRING SCIENTISTS TO
TEST THEIR WORK ON BOTH MALE AND
FEMALE ANIMALS.
FOR SOME INSIGHT INTO WHAT'S
BEHIND THESE CHANGES AND WHAT IT
MEANS, WE TURN TO:
DOCTOR JANINE CLAYTON, THE
DIRECTOR OF N.I.H.'S OFFICE OF
RESEARCH ON WOMEN'S HEALTH, WHO
ANNOUNCED THE CHANGE.
AND PHYLLIS GREENBERGER, THE
PRESIDENT OF THE SOCIETY FOR
WOMEN'S HEALTH RESEARCH, WHO HAS
LONG ADVOCATED FOR THIS.
WE WELCOME YOU BOTH TO THE
PROGRAM.
DR. CLAYTON, WHY THE SEX OF THE
ANIMAL MAKES A DIFFERENCE?
>> IT MAKES A HUGE DIFFERENCE
BECAUSE THE PRE-CLINICAL STUDIES
ARE THE STUDIES THAT BUILD THE
EVIDENCE BASE AND INFORM THE
CLINICAL STUDIES.
SO IF YOU WILL BE STUDYING A
DISEASE THAT AFFECTS BOTH MEN
AND WOMEN, IT'S IMPORTANT TO
THINK ABOUT MALE AND FEMALE
CELLS AND IN THE ANIMAL MODEL
WORK WHEN YOU DO THE CLINICAL
RESEARCH.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS IS
SOMETHING YOU AND YOUR
ORGANIZATION HAS BEEN FOCUSED ON
FOR A LONG TIME AND BEEN KNOWN
FOR A LONG TIME.
>> IT'S BEEN KNOWN WITHIN A
CERTAIN PORTION OF THE RESEARCH
COMMUNITY.
I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S STILL
GENERALLY ACCEPTED BY EVERYONE
AND I THINK IT'S STILL GOING TO
TAKE A WHILE BEFORE IT FILTERS
OUT AMONG RESEARCH SCIENTISTS,
BUT THERE IS A LOT OF PUSH-BACK
FOR A LONG TIME AND, OBVIOUSLY,
FINALLY THIS IS GETTING THE
ATTENTION.
>> Woodruff: IS THAT THE
REASON IT WASN'T DONE EARLIER
DR. CLAYTON, THAT THERE WAS THIS
BUSH PAK IN THE SCIENTIFIC
COMMUNITY?
>> THERE ARE PROBABLY A LOT OF
FACTORS INVOLVED.
WHAT'S REALLY IMPORTANT NOW IS
WE HAVE BEEN ABLE TO PUT THE
FOCUS ON GETTING THIS AS A
PRIORITY.
AS PHYLLIS MENTIONED, THE
SOCIETY AND OTHER ADVOCACY
GROUPS AND SCIENTISTS AND OTHERS
HAVE TALKED ABOUT THIS IN THE
PAST AND WE ARE SUPPORT
SCIENTISTS DOING THIS RESEARCH,
BUT IT WASN'T ENOUGH OF A
PRIORITY.
IN SOME WAYS IT WAS LIKE A BLIND
SPOT.
STEINTISTS WEREN'T THINKING
ABOUT IT.
>> Woodruff: PHYLLIS
GREENBERGER, WERE THERE ACTUALLY
INDIVIDUALS WHO WERE HARMED OR
WHERE HELP WASN'T DELIVERED
BECAUSE THE RESEARCH WAS DONE
ONLY ON MALES?
>> WELL, WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
MALES, YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT NOT
ONLY MALE ANIMALS OR MALE CELLS,
BUT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT IN TERMS
OF CLINICAL TRIALS AN INCLUSION.
SO WHEN WE STARTED LOOKING AT
THE WHOLE ISSUE OF THE LACK OF
INCLUSION OF WOMEN IN CLINICAL
TRIALS WAS 25 YEARS AGO WHEN
MOSTLY MALES WERE IN CLINICAL
TRIALS AND WE WORKED WITH
CONGRESS TO GET WOMEN AND
MINORITIES IN CLINICAL TRIALS.
THAT WAS WHERE WE DEFINED THE
PHASE THREE, AND WE WERE TOLD
THE N.I.H. FELT THAT WAS
BASICALLY WHAT THEY COULD DO.
NO ONE TALKED ABOUT ANIMAL
MODELS OR CELLS OR EVEN PHASE
ONE AND TWO, WHICH IS STILL
WHERE WE NEED TO GO TO SOME
EXTENT, WITHOUT GETTING INTO ALL
THE DETAILS.
BUT ACTUALLY I THINK WHAT REALLY
STARTED IT IS THERE WAS AN
INSTITUTE OF MEDICINE REPORT
THAT THE SOCIETY COMMISSIONED
AND FINALLY CAME OUT IN 2001
THAT SAID EVERY CELL HAS A SEX
AND THAT WAS SORT OF THE
BEGINNING I THINK OF RECOGNIZING
HOW FAR BACK THIS RESEARCH HAD
TO GO TO UNDERSTAND SEX AND
GENDER DIFFERENCES.
>> Woodruff: DR. CLAYTON
WHAT'S INVOLVED FOR SCIENTISTS
NOW THAT THEY'RE TOLD THEY HAVE
TO THINK ABOUT THIS?
WHAT'S INVOLVED IN DOING THAT?
>> SO WE'RE CALLING ON SCIENTIST
TO TAKE SEX IN ACCOUNT WHEN THEY
THINK ABOUT THEIR PRE-CLINICAL
EXPERIMENTAL DESIGN.
SO THEY WILL NEED TO TAKE A
BALANCED APPROACH IN LOOKING AT
MALE AND FEMALE DIFFERENCES IN
CELLS IN ANIMAL WORK.
THE REASON WHY THAT'S SO
IMPORTANT IS BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
DRIVES THE CLINICAL BENEFITS SO
MEN AND WOMEN CAN BENEFIT FROM
MEDICAL RESEARCH.
>> Woodruff: IS IT EXTRA WORK,
MORE EXPENSIVE AND WHAT'S
INVOLVED IN MAKING SURE THERE'S
A GENDER RESEARCHED?
>> THE FIRST THING FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE IS RECOGNIZING IT
AND THINKING ABOUT IT
DIFFERENTLY AND TAKING INTO
ACCOUNT IN THE DESIGN AND
EXPERIMENTS THEY WORK ON.
SO WE'LL TALK ABOUT THAT IN
TERMS OF RELEASING THE POLICIES
AND TRAINING MATERIALS WHERE
WE'LL GO THROUGH THE MULTIPLE
STRATEGIES PEOPLE CAN USE.
THERE'S NO REALLY ONE WAY.
DEPENDS ON THE SCIENTIFIC
CONTEXT AND THE RESEARCH BEING
PERFORMED.
>> Woodruff: I WANT TO ASK YOU
THE QUESTION I WAS ASKING
PHYLLIS GREENBERGER.
ARE THERE INSTANCES YOU CAN CITE
WHERE HARM WAS DONE OR HELP WAS
NOT PROVIDED BECAUSE RESEARCH
WAS DONE ONLY ON MALES?
>> WELL, CLEARLY, WE'RE ALL
CONCERNED ABOUT HARM AND NOT
CONSIDERING SEX AND GENDER AND
HOW THAT MIGHT AFFECT THAT IS
SOMETHING OF CONCERN.
I GUESS THE REAL ANSWER IS WE
WILL NEVER KNOW THE NUMBER OF
WOMEN THAT WEREN'T TREATED
APPROPRIATELY OR THE NUMBER OF
MEN MISSED IN TERMS OF
DIAGNOSIS.
FOR EXAMPLE, A WOMAN MAY NOT
HAVE CHEST PAIN, CRUSHING CHEST
PAIN WHEN SHE'S ACTUALLY HAVING
A HEART ATTACK.
SHE JUST MAY HAVE PAIN IN HER
JAW, FEEL REALLY SLEEPY AND NOT
DOING WELL, OVERALL EXTRA
FATIGUE, AND IF SHE COMES TO AN
E.R. DOC AND SAYS THAT, SHE MAY
NOT GET PICKED UP AS HAVING AN
ACTUAL HEART ATTACK.
>> BUT THERE ARE INSTANCES --
WE'VE COMMISSIONED WITH CONGRESS
AND WORKED WITH GOVERNMENT
ACCOUNTING A GAO REPORT, A
NUMBER OF YEARS AGO, BACK IN
2000, AND TURNED OUT EIGHT OF
THE TEN DRUGS THAT HAD BEEN
TAKEN OFF THE MARKET HAD
DISPROPORTIONATELY ADVERSE
EFFECTS IN WOMEN AND ONE WAS A
CARDIOVASCULAR DRUG THAT
ACTUALLY CAUSED HEART FAILURE IN
WOMEN.
SO IT'S HARD TO KNOW AT THIS
POINT WHETHER THE RISK FACTORS
OR THE SIDE EFFECTS FOR WOMEN
ARE BECAUSE THE DRUG WASN'T
TESTED, THAT IT'S JUST ANNDID
YOKNW, EVERYBO IS DIFFERENT
ANYWAY, SO YOU MAY HAVE A RISK
FACTOR THAT I DON'T, EVEN THOUGH
WE'RE BOTH FEMALE.
BUT IT'S DIFFICULT TO KNOW ALL
ABOUT THE RISK FACTORS ACROSS
THE BOARD, WHAT WE HAVE TO DO,
BUT WE KNOW FROM THE GAO REPORT
THAT THAT WAS AN EXAMPLE.
>> Woodruff: BUT IN ANY EVENT,
NOW YOU'RE SAYING IT WILL MAKE A
CONFERENCE BECAUSE FEMALE AND
MALE SUBJECTS WILL HAVE TO BE
PART OF THE TESTING.
>> ABSOLUTELY AND THE FEMALE
ANIMAL MODELS AND THE FEMALE
CELLS WILL HAVE TO BE USED IN
THE STUDIES WHERE THEY'RE
TESTING DRUGS TO SEE IF THEY
MIGHT BE EFFECTIVE.
>> Woodruff: AND SCIENTISTS
WILL GO ALONG WITH THIS?
>> WELL, AS IT'S TAKEN 25 YEARS
TO GET TO THIS POINT, I DON'T
THINK IT'S A SLAM DUNK.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO TAKE A
WHILE.
YOU ASKED THE QUESTION WHAT WAS
THE RESISTANCE, I THINK PART OF
IT WAS JUST UNDERSTANDING THAT
THIS IS IMPORTANT AND THAT THERE
ARE DIFFERENCES.
BUT FEMALE ANIMALS TURNED OUT TO
BE MORE EXPENSIVE THAN MALE AND
MALE ARE LESS EXPENSIVE THAN
FEMALE AND IT'S COMPLICATED AND
PROBABLY MORE EXPENSIVE TO DO
RESEARCH ON BOTH AS OPPOSED TO
ONE, SO I THINK THERE'S GOING TO
BE -- YOU KNOW, THERE ARE SOME
COMPLICATIONS AND IT WILL TAKE A
WHILE FOR THE CHANGE TO OCCUR.
>> Woodruff: WELL, IT'S
SOMETHING THAT I KNOW THAT IT'S
IMPORTANT TO TAKE NOTE OF AND WE
APPRECIATE YOU BOTH BEING HERE
TO HELP EXPLAIN IT TO US.
>> WE, I APPRECIATE THE
OPPORTUNITY.
>> Woodruff: DR. JEANNE CALLE,
PHYLLICALLE -- DR. JANINE CLAYTD
PHYLLIS GREENBERGER, WE THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: LATER TONIGHT ON MOST
P.B.S. STATIONS, FRONTLINE AIRS
THE SECOND PART OF "UNITED
STATES OF SECRETS."
TONIGHT'S INSTALLMENT FOCUSES ON
THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN U.S.
TECHNOLOGY GIANTS AND THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.
THE FOLLOWING PORTION REVEALS
SOME OF THE TECH COMMUNITY'S
REACTION TO REVELATIONS THAT THE
N.S.A. WAS ACCESSING DATA FROM
MAJOR INTERNET PLAYERS LIKE
FACEBOOK, YAHOO, GOOGLE AND
SKYPE.
THE AGENCY CALLED THE PROGRAM,
PRISM.
>> Narrator: ON THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE COUNTRY, IN SILICON
VALLEY, THERE WAS ANGER
AND CONFUSION OVER JUST WHAT
KIND OF ACCESS MAJOR INTERNET
COMPANIES WERE GIVING THE NSA.
>> THERE WAS SHOCK AND
DISBELIEF AND HORROR.
A LOT OF PEOPLE I KNOW, SILICON
VALLEY-TYPE PEOPLE, JUST FELT,
"IT CAN'T BE RIGHT.
IT'S NOT POSSIBLE GOOGLE,
FACEBOOK, THESE GUYS ARE
COLLABORATING.
IT'S NOT JUST WHAT THEY WOULD
DO."
>> THE CEOS OF INTERNET
COMPANIES LIKE FACEBOOK AND
GOOGLE DENIED...
>> Narrator: THE COMPANIES
SCRAMBLED TO RESPOND
TO THE NEWS.
>> GOOGLE DENIES THAT THEY
HAVE DIRECT ACCESS.
WHO'S RIGHT?
>> THEY FREAKED OUT BECAUSE
THEY'D NEVER HEARD OF A PROGRAM
CALLED PRISM.
AND THEY WERE NOT LETTING THE
NSA GET DIRECT ACCESS TO THEIR
SERVERS.
THEY WERE COOPERATING WITH A
SECRET PROGRAM THAT THEY REALLY
COULDN'T DESCRIBE IN
SUFFICIENT DETAIL TO THEIR
CUSTOMERS.
>> THESE N.S.A. FOLKS ARE
SAYING...
>> THEY SAW HERE A BIG THREAT
TO THEIR IMAGE, TO THEIR
BUSINESS MODEL, WHICH RELIES
ON PEOPLE TO TRUST THEM
WITH THEIR COMMUNICATIONS.
AND THEY STARTED ISSUING QUITE
HEATED STATEMENTS, TAKING ISSUE
WITH THE IDEA THAT THEY WOULD BE
JUST HANDING OVER FREE ACCESS TO
THE N.S.A.
>> Narrator: BUT THEN THERE WAS
MORE BAD NEWS.
>> THE WASHINGTON POST, CITING
DOCUMENTS STOLEN AND RELEASED
BY EDWARD SNOWDEN...
>> Narrator: PRISM WAS ONLY PART
OF WHAT THE N.S.A. WAS UP TO.
>> Narrator: IN A PROGRAM
CALLED MUSCULAR, THE N.S.A. WAS
SECRETLY EXTRACTING DATA FROM
FIBER OPTIC CABLES OVERSEAS,
WHERE INTELLIGENCE OPERATIONS
ARE MUCH LESS RESTRAINED BY
SURVEILLANCE LAWS.
>> PRISM WAS A FRONT DOOR.
PRISM WAS THE COURT SAYING,
"YOU HAVE TO COOPERATE WITH THE
N.S.A. AND GIVE SPECIFIC
INFORMATION WHEN ASKED."
NOW, THEY FIND OUT THAT
THROUGH THE BACKDOOR,
THE GOVERNMENT IS ACTUALLY
BREAKING INTO THEIR
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TAKING
WHATEVER THEY WANT.
>> THEY CAN'T INTENTIONALLY
LOOK FOR A U.S. PERSON'S
INFORMATION UNLESS THEY BELIEVE
IT'S A LEGITIMATE FOREIGN
TARGET.
BUT OTHERWISE THEY'RE FREE TO
COLLECT IT AT... PRETTY MUCH
UNRESTRICTED ABROAD.
THEY CAN HACK INTO COMPANIES'
INTERNAL NETWORKS AND COLLECT
INFORMATION IN BULK.
>> Narrator: THE N.S.A. DID THIS
BY INVOKING A REAGAN-ERA
PRESIDENTIAL ORDER, FROM A TIME
LONG BEFORE THE MODERN INTERNET.
>> THE N.S.A. DECIDED IT WAS
OKAY UNDER EXECUTIVE ORDER
12333 AND WITH THE BACKING
OF THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
AND THE WHITE HOUSE TO BREAK
INTO THE PRIVATE LINKS,
THE PRIVATE DATA LINKS THAT
CONNECT THE DATA CENTERS OF
GOOGLE AND YAHOO AROUND THE
WORLD.
YOU'RE COLLECTING A VERY
LARGE FRACTION OF THE WHOLE
PLANET'S INTERNET TRAFFIC.
AND THAT INCLUDES A VERY LARGE
NUMBER OF AMERICANS.
>> THE PROJECT IDENTIFIED BY
THE CODE NAME "MUSCULAR"...
>> WE DO NOT JUST TAP INTO
LINES IN THE UNITED STATES.
OVERSEAS, THE ABILITY TO DO
THAT IN BULK IS CRITICAL FOR
FINDING THE COMMUNICATIONS OF
PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO HIDE.
IF YOU CAN LOOK FOR CERTAIN
PATTERNS AND DIVE INTO THOSE
COMMUNICATIONS, YOU FIND PEOPLE
UTTERLY UNKNOWN TO YOU WHO ARE
VERY DANGEROUS.
>> Narrator: GOOGLE WAS
SHOCKED.
THEY HAD LEASED WHAT THEY
THOUGHT WERE SECURE DATA LINES.
>> THE IDEA THAT ONE OF OUR OWN
GOVERNMENT AGENCIES WOULD GO OUT
AND ESSENTIALLY BREAK INTO
GOOGLE'S OWN DATA STREAMS TO GO
BEYOND WHAT GOOGLE THOUGHT HAD
BEEN A SKEPTICAL AND RESISTANT,
BUT NEVERTHELESS COOPERATIVE
RELATIONSHIP, I FIND THAT
QUITE SHOCKING.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, HARI
SREENIVASAN TALKED WITH AN
AUTHOR WHO WROTE ABOUT THE
IMPACT ONE MAN HAD ON THE
SUCCESS OR FAILURE OF A COMPANY.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN THE ONE
MAN IS STEVE JOBS, IT'S A
QUESTION WORTH ASKING.
IT'S BEEN MORE THAN TWO YEARS
SINCE HE DIED AT AGE 56.
SINCE THEN, MORE THAN 200 PEOPLE
INSIDE AND OUTSIDE THE COMPANY
HAVE BEEN INTERVIEWED.
THE UPSHOT, WHO KNEW APPLE AFTER
STEVE JOBS.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU ENDED UP
WITH A STORY ABOUT APPLE HAVING
SEEN ITS BEST DAYS.
WHY?
>> HOW APPLE IS HANDLING THE
TRANSITION AT A TIME WHEN IT'S
TRYING TO STAY AT THE TOP OF ITS
GAME AND I JUST THOUGHT THAT IT
WAS A FASCINATING PERIOD TO BE
WATCHING THEM REALLY CLOSELY
BECAUSE, YOU KNOW, I THINK OF
THEM AS THIS EMPIRE AND IT'S AN
AGE-OLD QUESTION, RIGHT?
IT'S BEEN ASKED MANY TIMES WHAT
HAPPENS TO AN EMPIRE WHEN YOUR
GREAT LEADER DIES, AND THAT, TO
ME, WAS A FASCINATING STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU'RE SAYING
THE EMPIRE IS NOT DOING SO
GREAT?
>> I'M SAYING THE EMPIRE IS
STRUGGLING TO FIND A NEW
IDENTITY AFTER THE LOSS OF
SOMEBODY AROUND WHICH IT
REVOLVED FOR A VERY LONG TIME.
>> TIM COOK, THE C.E.O., READ
YOUR BOOK.
HE PUT OUT THIS NOTE ON  CNBC, E
SAID, IT FAILS TO CAPTURE STEVE,
APPLE OR ANYONE ELSE IN THE
COMPANY.
ARE YOU SURPRISED?
>> IN THE PAST, WRITE ABOUT THE
IPAD BEFORE IT CAME OUT AND
STEVE JOBS HIMSELF TOLD ME MUCH
OF MY INFORMATION WAS INCORRECT.
I WROTE ABOUT THE LOW-END
IPhone SIX MONTHS LATER AND
APPLE DENIED THAT AS WELL AND
BOTH HAVE PROVEN TRUE.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT ONE OF THE
CONCERNS IS, IN THIS PARTICULAR
PERIOD OF APPLE, ANY DIFFERENT
THAN SOME OF THE CHALLENGES THAT
STEVE JOBS MIGHT HAVE GONE
THROUGH OR A PRE-STEVE JOBS
PASSING APPLE MIGHT HAVE GONE
THROUGH?
>> I THINK THAT'S A REALLY GOOD
QUESTION AND THE CHALLENGES
APPLELE ARE GOING THROUGH, A LOT
OF THEM ARE BIG COMPANY
CHALLENGES.
THIS IS A COMPANY THAT HAS GROWN
FOR REALLY RAPIDLY FOR -- IN A
VERY SHORT AMOUNT OF TIME AND
IT'S FACING BIG COMPANY ISSUES
THAT STEVE JOBS HIMSELF WOULD
HAVE FACED HAD HE BEEN AROUND.
THE FACT THAT IT'S GOING THROUGH
THIS LEADERSHIP TRANSITION MAKES
THE CHALLENGES EVEN MORE
DIFFICULT FOR APPLE TO GRAPPLE
WITH.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT'S TIM
COOK LIKE AS A LEADER?
YOU DESCRIBE HIM AS ALMOST POLAR
OPPOSITE OF STEVE JOBS.
IS HE IN A POSITION TO LEAD
APPLE TO THE NEXT DISRUPTION IN
TECHNOLOGY THEY HAVE BECOME SO
FAMOUS FOR?
>> I THINK IF YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT PROFITS AND REVENUES AND
AS A BUSINESS, HE'S A GREAT
BUSINESSMAN.
BUT STEVE JOBS EMBODIED THIS
COMBINATION, THIS RARE
COMBINATION OF VISION AND THE P,
TOGETHER, HELPED APPLE DISRUPT
INDUSTRY AFTER INDUSTRY WITH
THESE GREAT PRODUCTS, AND THERE
IS NOBODY THERE RIGHT NOW WHO
HAS BOTH.
>> Sreenivasan: WHEN YOU LOOK
BACK AT THE APPLE STOCKS,
SOMEBODY'S GOING TO SAY WHAT'S
ABOUT THE EMPIRE?
THE MARKET THINKS THERE IS
SOMETHING STILL WORTH INVESTING
IN APPLE IN, RIGHT?
>> WELL, I THINK, YOU KNOW, THE
MARKET IS AN EMOTIONAL THING,
BUT I THINK IT'S DOING BETTER.
THERE WAS A LOT OF CONCERN A
LITTLE WHILE AGO AND NOW IT'S
COMING BACK UP AGAIN, BUT MY
STORY ISN'T ABOUT THE STOCK
MARKET OR HOW APPLE IS DOING
FROM A DAY-TO-DAY STANDPOINT,
IT'S FROM THE LONG-TERM VISION.
AND FROM THAT STANDPOINT, I
THINK WHAT I SAW IS APPLE
GRAPPLING WITH THE LOSS OF THIS
MAN AROUND WHOM THEIR CURRENT
VISION IS BASED ON, AND THE
MARKET IS CHANGING RAPIDLY AND
THEY NEED TO FIND A NEW VISION
FOR THE COMPANY POST-STEVE JOBS
AND I'M NOT SURE THEY'RE DOING
THAT.
IN THIS PERIOD OF TIME I HAVE IE
BEEN LOOKING AT, THEY'RE LOST A
LITTLE BIT.
>> Sreenivasan: ONE OF THE
CHAPTERS YOU HAD THAT WAS
INTERESTING TO ME IS ALL OF THE
EVENTS AROUND FOX COM, THE
FACTORIES IN CHINA MAKING MOST
TO HAVE THE PRODUCTS APPLE IS
HOLDING, THERE WAS A RASH OF
SUICIDES AND APPLE HAD TO DEAL
WITH THIS PROBLEM.
FOR AN APPLE CONSUMER TODAY,
HAVE THOSE PROBLEMS BEEN
RESOLVED?
IS IT ANY BETTER?
>> I THINK THE PROBLEMS IN CHINA
ARE HUGELY COMPLEX AND A LOT OF
IT IS BEYOND APPLE'S CONTROL,
AND I DO SPEND A FAIR AMOUNT OF
TIME.
I VISITED CHINA AND WENTO THE
FACTORY GATES AND TALKED TO
FACTORY WORKERS AND, YOU KNOW,
ONE OF THE THINGS I DISCOVERED
IS THAT -- IS HOW COMPLEX AND
I'M NOT SURE IT'S SOMETHING THAT
APPLE CAN RESOLVE.
IT WILL BE SOMETHING THAT WILL
KEEP IMPACTING THE COMPANY, AND
THAT'S JUST THE REALITY, AND
IT'S A RISK FOR THEM.
>> Sreenivasan: THE NAME OF
THE BOOK, HAUNTED EMPIRE, APPLE
AFTER STEVE JOBS.
THANKS SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Ifill: THE MEDIA, TELECOM AND
MOBILE LANDSCAPE IS GOING
THROUGH  ENORMOUS CHANGE RIGHT
NOW, AND THIS WEEK'S
ANNOUNCEMENT OF ANOTHER MEGA-
MERGER, AND THE PROSPECT OF EVEN
MORE CONSOLIDATION, SHOOK UP
THOSE INDUSTRIES AGAIN.
>> Ifill: A.T.&.T., AMERICA'S
SECOND-LARGEST WIRELESS
PROVIDER, ANNOUNCED SUNDAY IT'S
AGREED TO BUY SATELLITE
TELEVISION GIANT DIRECTV FOR
NEARLY $50 BILLION IN CASH AND
STOCK.
THE COMPANIES SAID THE TAKEOVER
WILL ALLOW FOR MORE BUNDLING OF
MOBILE, T.V., AND INTERNET
PLANS.
EXECUTIVES FROM BOTH SIDES SPOKE
DURING A CONFERENCE CALL
YESTERDAY.
A.T.&.T. C.E.O. RANDALL
STEPHENSON.
>> IT GIVES US THE OPPORTUNITY
TO LEAD THE WAY AND TO REDEFINE
THE VIDEO ENTERTAINMENT BUSINESS
FOR A MOBILE AND HIGH-SPEED
WORLD.
THAT INCLUDES DELIVERING CONTENT
TO CONSUMERS ACROSS MULTIPLE
SCREENS, MOBILE DEVICES, T.V.'S,
LAPTOPS, THE BACKSEAT DISPLAYS
OF CONNECTED CARS AND EVEN
AIRPLANES.
>> Ifill: THE DEAL WILL GIVE
AT&T AND DIRECTV A COMBINED 26
MILLION VIDEO USERS IN THE U.S.
A.T.&.T. ALREADY SERVES 116
MILLION MOBILE CUSTOMERS.
THE PURCHASE COMES AMID BROAD
QUESTIONS ABOUT THE FUTURE OF
TELEVISION AND ONLINE VIDEO.
IN FEBRUARY, COMCAST UNVEILED
PLANS TO BUY TIME WARNER CABLE
FOR MORE THAN $45 BILLION, A
DEAL THAT WOULD SERVE MORE THAN
30 MILLION CABLE SUBSCRIBERS AND
NEARLY AS MANY BROADBAND USERS.
SOME LAWMAKERS SAID SUCH
CONSOLIDATION ONLY HURTS
CONSUMERS.
MINNESOTA DEMOCRAT AL FRANKEN
HAS QUESTIONED THE A.T.&.T. DEAL
AND, LAST MONTH, THE PROPOSED
COMCAST PURCHASE.
>> WE ARE HERE TO QUESTION
WHETHER THIS DEAL IS GOOD FOR
COMPETITION, WHETHER IT'S IN THE
PUBLIC INTEREST.
I'M AGAINST THIS DEAL BECAUSE I
BELIEVE IT DOES NOT MEET EITHER
TEST.
I BELIEVE THIS DEAL WILL RESULT
IN FEWER CHOICES, HIGHER PRICES,
AND EVEN WORSE SERVICE FOR MY
CONSTITUENTS.
>> Ifill: BUT COMCAST EXECUTIVE
VICE PRESIDENT DAVID COHEN
DEFENDED HIS PROPOSED MERGER.
>>> WHILE THIS TRANSACTION WILL
MAKE US BIGGER, THAT'S A GOOD
THING, NOT A PROBLEM.
MOST OF OUR REAL COMPETITORS ARE
NATIONAL AND GLOBAL AND LARGER
THAN US.
>> Ifill: THE A.T.&.T.-DIRECTV
MERGER COULD FACE SIMILAR
SCRUTINY.
IT COULD BE FINALIZED WITHIN A
YEAR.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO THESE DEALS
MEAN FOR CONSUMERS?
AND WHY ARE CORPORATE GIANTS
SPENDING TENS OF BILLIONS TO TRY
TO GET EVEN BIGGER?
WE TURN TO TWO PEOPLE WHO KNOW
THIS FIELD WELL.
MATT WOOD IS THE POLICY DIRECTOR
FOR FREE PRESS, A NON-PARTISAN
ORGANIZATION ADVOCATING FOR
MEDIA AND TECHNOLOGY POLICIES.
AND JIM NAIL IS AN ANALYST AT
FORRESTER RESEARCH.
THEY FOCUS ON CONSUMER AND
BUSINESS DATA IN CHANGING
MARKETPLACES.
MATT WOOD, WHAT IS THE APPEAL OF
A DEAL LIKE THIS FOR A COMPANY
AS BIG AS AT&T?
>> WELL, I THINK THEY SEE THE
APPEAL AS A QUICK BOOST TO THEIR
BOTTOM LINE AND AS WALL STREET
REWARDING THEM FOR THESE KINDS
OF AMERICANERS, WE THINK IT'S
WASTEFUL SPENDING, THAT IF AT&T
WOULD PROVIDE MORE BROADBAND FOR
EXISTING CUSTOMERS AND EXPANDING
BROAD BANNED OFFERINGS WOULD BE
MONEY BETTER SPENT, BUT THE THE
DEAL WAS MORE LIKECE FOR IN AT&,
AND WITH THAT THEY COULD WIRE
HALF THE COUNTRY WITH FIBER,
INSTEAD THEY EEK LOOKING FOR THE
BOTTOM LINE OF THE MERGER AND
THE STOCK PRICE.
>> Woodruff: DOES IT MAKE
SENSE FOR A COMPANY LIKE A
COMPANY LIKE AT&T -- JIM NAIL,
DOES IT MAKE SENSE FOR AT&T TO
BE SPENDING MONEY THIS WAY?
>> IT ABSOLUTELY DOES.
THIS GIVES A FEW KIND OF FUTURE
BOTH TO AT&T AND TO DIRECTV BY
EXPANDING THESE SERVICES AND
GIVING AT&T THE CRASH FLOW --
CASH FLOW TO DO THE KIND OF
EXPANSION WE WERE TALKING ABOUT.
>> Ifill: WE TALK ABOUT THESE
KINDS OF MERGERS, JIM NAIL, WE
MENTION THERE HAVE BEEN A LOT OF
THEM LATELY.
WHY?
>> WE ACTUALLY HAVE A TALE OF
TWO DIFFERENT STORIES GOING ON.
TIME WARNER COMCAST IS A CLASSIC
COMBINATION OF TWO SIMILAR
COMPANIES WHO ARE SEEKING
EFFICIENCIES AND ECONOMIES OF
SCALE AND, THEREFORE, HIGHER
MARGINS AS THEIR MARKET FLOWS.
DIRECTV AND AT&T ARE ACTUALLY A
DIFFERENT STORY.
IT'S ACTUALLY BEING DRIVEN BY A
FUNDAMENTAL CHANGE IN CONSUMER
BEHAVIOR WHERE CONSUMERS EXPECT
TO GET THE CONTENT, THE
PROGRAMMING, THE DATA THEY WANT
ANYWHERE THEY WANT, ON ANY
DEVICE THEY WANT.
THIS IS SOMETHING THAT SATELLITE
CAN NEVER DELIVER AND, SO,
SATELLITE HAS TO GET TOGETHER
WITH A DIFFERENT KIND OF
PROVIDER SO THEY CAN SATISFY
THEIR CUSTOMERS IN THE FUTURE
OR, YOU KNOW, THEY'RE OUT OF
BUSINESS.
>> Ifill: ARE CUSTOMERS
COMMANDING THIS KIND OF WIRELESS
TECHNOLOGY?
DOES IT MAKE SENSE, THEREFORE,
FOR A COMPANY LIKE AT&T TO PUT
ITS MONEY THERE?
>> I THINK JIM AND I WOULD AGREE
IT MAKES SENSE FOR AT&T.
FOR CONSUMERS, PEOPLE ARE
DEFINITELY DEMANDING THIS KIND
OF CONNECTIVE BUT THE QUESTION
IS ARE THEY DEMANDING A SINGLE
COMPANY OFFER IT TO THEM OR ARE
PEOPLE CAPABLE OF MAKING THE
BUNDLES ON THEIR OWN?
THAT'S THE GENIUS OF THE
INTERNET, PEOPLE CAN GO TO
DIFFERENT SOURCES ON THE SCREEN
AND FOR AT&T TO SAY WE'LL TAKE
AWAY A COMPETITOR TO AT&T'S
EXISTING VIDEO SERVICES AND THE
ONLY BENEFIT THEY CAN NAME IS
NOW EVERYTHING WILL COME TO YOU
THROUGH ANTHTH CONNECTION, WE
JUST DON'T SEE IT.
WE SEE HIGHER PRICES AND
PROBLEMS FOR CONSUMERS EVEN IF
THIS BENEFITS AT&T SHAREHOLDERS
TODAY AND TOMORROW.
>> Ifill: DOES AT&T BENEFIT
FROM INCREASED INNOVATIONS FROM
THESE PROBLEMS?
>> THE INNOVATION TENDS TO
HAPPEN ON THE EDGES, AS IT
SHOULD BE, THESE COMPANIES
PROVIDE VALUABLE SERVICES GIVING
US THE CONNECTIONS WE NEED TO
RECEIVE THESE INNOVATIONS AND
MORE AND MORE FOR PEOPLE TO MAKE
THEM ON THEIR OWN, BUT TO SAY IN
AT&T WILL BE MORE INNOVATIVE,
IT'S NOT LOOKING AT THEIR TRACK
RECORD OF BEING A CARRIER IN THE
MIDDLE, DOESN'T DO MUCH FOR
THEMSELVES.
WE NEED THEM TO PROVIDE THE
PATHWAY FOR THE REST OF US.
>> Ifill: HOW MUCH THA HAS TO DO
WITH THE CHANGING, COMPETITIVE
LANDSCAPE INVOLVING STREAMING
SERVICES LIKE AMAZON, NETFLIX
AND YAHOO AND YOU NAME IT THAT
MAKES COMPANIES LIKE AT&T MIKE
DIFFERENT DECISIONS?
>> I THINK THAT'S THE CORE OF
THE KIND OF INNOVATION AND
CHANGE WE'RE LOOKING AT HERE
BECAUSE A LOT OF THE ANALYSIS IS
LOOKING AT THIS THROUGH THE LENS
OF PROVIDING TELEVISION
SERVICES.
SO IN THAT SENSE, IT MAKES SENSE
TO PRESERVE DIRECTV AS A
TELEVISION DISTRIBUTOR VERSUS
BUWH RLY ING  IS AL THE OTHER
CHANGE TO BROADBAND INTERNET
BEING THE FUNDAMENTAL FLAT FORM
THROUGH WHICH ALL THE OTHER
SERVICES ARE PROVIDED.
WHEN YOU LOOK AT IT THAT WAY,
CONSUMERS HAVE TONS OF CHOICES,
LOTS OF COMPETITION ON THE
INTERNET TO DISTRIBUTE
TELEVISION CONTENT.
AS YOU SAID, NETFLIX, AMAZON,
HULU, YOUTUBE, ON AND ON.
THAT'S WHERE THE INNOVATION WILL
TAKE PLACE, AND WHAT I HOPE THE
REGULATORS WILL SEE IN THIS IS
IT'S NOT JUST ABOUT PRESERVING
CHOICE IN TELEVISION, BUT IT'S
STIMULATING INNOVATION AND
EXPANSION OF BROADBAND WHICH
WILL BE A FOUNDATION THAT ON TOP
OF WHICH ALL OF THESE OTHER
COMPANIES WILL INNOVATE, BRING
NEW SERVICES AND NEW COMPETITION
FOR THE BENEFIT OF CONSUMERS.
>> Reporter: ARE WE HEADED
INEVITABLY DOWN THE PATH OF
CONSOLIDATION, JUST A COUPLE OF
COMPANIES CONTROLLING ALL
ACCESS?
>> I THINK THAT'S WHERE WE'RE
HEADED IN THE DEPARTMENT
OF JUSTICE AND THE FCC DON'T
BLOCK THE MERGERS.
THEY HAVE A CHANCE TO DO THAT.
I THINK JIM IS RIGHT, THE
COMPANIES PROVIDE A PATHWAY TO
INNOVATION AND COMPETITION, BUT
THAT'S THE KEY DIFFERENCE.
WHEN AT&T SAYS WE COMPETE WITH
NETFLIX OR GOOGLE OR AMAZON,
NONE OF THE COMPANIES CAN REACH
THEIR CUSTOMERS UNDECEMBER AT&T
REMAINS A PLATFORM FOR THAT
COMPANY.
SO AT&T HAS IN A LOT OF WAYS
CONTROL OVER THEIR COMPETITORS,
AND WHEN THEY SAY, WE'RE A
CONTENT COMPANY, TOO, THAT'S
TRUE UP TO A POINT, BUT AT&T IS
ALSO THE CARRIER WE NEED TO EVEN
REACH THOSE OTHER COMPANIES IN
THE FIRST PLACE.
>> Ifill: JIM NAIL, HOW MUCH
OF A PROBLEM IS IT FOR CONSUMERS
IN A SITUATION LIKE THIS IF THEY
SEEM TO HAVE FEWER CHOICES AND
COMPANIES TO RELY ON TO PROVIDE
THE CONTENT?
IS THAT EVER-SHRINKING
ENVIRONMENT REALLY HELPING?
>> WELL, LET'S LOOK AT THE FACT
THAT, RIGHT NOW, WE HAVE
MONOPOLY IN MANY AREAS AROUND
BROADBAND ACCESS.
MOST PEOPLE CAN ONLY BUY
BROADBAND FROM THEIR CABLE
PROVIDER.
SO WE'RE IN A MONOPOLY WORLD
RIGHT NOW.
THIS ACTUALLY INCREASES CHOICE
BY GIVING AT&T THE ABILITY TO
EXPAND THEIR BROADBAND NETWORK
AND BE IN MORE AREAS IN
COMPETITION WITH COMCAST OR TIME
WARNER AND OTHERS IN THE FUTURE.
>> Ifill: DO YOU THINK THIS
WILL BE APPROVED BY THE JUSTICE
DEPARTMENT, OPEN QUESTION?
>> I THINK THERE'S A CHANCE.
I THINK WE HAVE A GOOD CASE TO
MAKE THIS IS NOT ACTUALLY A
CONSUMER'S BENEFIT AND AT&T
COULD EXPAND THEIR BROADBAND
NETWORK WITHOUT FIRST TAKING OUT
A COMPETITOR.
>> Ifill: MATT WOOD, JIM NAIL,
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
GENERAL MOTORS RECALLED ANOTHER
2.4 MILLION CARS AND TRUCKS FOR
PROBLEMS INCLUDING SEAT BELTS,
TRANSMISSIONS AND AIR BAGS.
AND A DOUBLE CAR BOMBING IN
NIGERIA KILLED AT LEAST 118
PEOPLE IN THE CITY OF JOS.
>> Ifill: ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE
RIGHT NOW, IN MANY PROFESSIONS,
WORKING WOMEN HAVE LONG EARNED
LESS THAN THEIR MALE
COUNTERPARTS.
WHAT'S THE BEST WAY TO COMPARE
YOUR OWN COMPENSATION?
OUR "ASK THE HEADHUNTER"
COLUMNIST IS PUTTING TOGETHER
SOME POINTERS ON HOW TO ASK FOR
MORE MONEY.
LEAVE YOUR QUESTIONS FOR HIM IN
HIS LATEST PIECE, ON "MAKING
SENSE."
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE LOOK AT A
PIONEERING DANCE PROGRAM THAT
BENEFITS CHILDREN OF ALL AGES.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.